Technology Curiosities

Everything you ever wanted to know about the Tech world, in one place

[MENU]
Home
News
Curiosities
Contact us

Android Mascot History

You probably know that the Android operating system, maintained by Google, is one of the most used for mobile devices around the world. But perhaps you don't know that your friendly mascot has a very curious name and story? Well, follow this article to learn a lot about this little robot.

The first version

The first attempt to create a mascot appeared in 2007 and came from a developer named Dan Morrill. He says he opened Inkscape (free software for vectorizing images) and created his own version of the robot. The objective was just to personify the system for his team only, there was no request from the company to create a mascot.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

This first bizarre version was even named after its creator: the Dandroids.

A new mascot appears

The idea of having a mascot matured and the mission was passed on to a professional in the field. Russian illustrator Irina Blok, also a Google employee, was tasked with representing the little robot in a more pleasant way.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Irina's main idea was to represent everything graphically with few strokes and in a flatter way. The design should also generate quick identification with those who look at it. Then Bugdroid appeared, Android's new mascot.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

The main inspiration for the new Bugdroid's features came from those little dolls that illustrate bathroom doors to indicate the gender of each door. Legend has it that the artist was creating at her desk in the Google office and looked towards the bathrooms and the identification was immediate: simple, clean, objective.

[VIDEO]
 
[EXTRA] Want to learn more?

Another curious issue regarding Android is that each version has always been named after a sweet, in alphabetical order from version 1.5 to 9.0.

1.5 - Cupcake
1.6 - Donut
3.0 - Eclair
2.2 - Froyo
2.3 - Gingerbread
3.0 - Honeycomb
4.0 - Ice Cream Sandwich
4.1 - Jelly Bean
4.4 - KitKat
5.0 - Lolipop
6.0 - Marshmallow
7.0 - Nougat
8.0 - Oreo
9.0 - Pie

Unfortunately, Android Q did not exist, as Google decided to put an end to this fun practice and started using numbering, which gave rise to Android 10.

Visit the Android History website here to find out the sequence of "sweetened" versions and what each one brought to the Android system.
[/EXTRA]

Then that's it! I hope you enjoyed our article with this curiosity about the Android system and its friendly mascot.
         
Website created by Gustavo Guanabara for CursoemVideo.